# Green Science & Technology Journal
<b>Weakly-Supervised Learning for Whole-Slide Image Classification and Its Feature Analysis in Digital Pathology </b><br>
<b>弱監督學習下的數位病理切片分類與特徵分析</b><br>

<b>Abstract</b><br>
With the advance of deep learning (DL) frameworks in many applications of classification, detection, and segmentation, the AI-enabled systems have been adopted in various modalities of medical imaging to assist clinical diagnosis. However, the supervised learning approaches need considerable and precise labels, which largely increases the development cost for the computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) systems in medical fields. Especially for the whole-slide images (WSIs) that involve gigapixels to process, unaffordable time and professional pathologists are required to obtain the manual annotations of the lesion regions on WSIs, becoming a barrier to develop the CAD systems for digital pathology. Therefore, the weakly-supervised learning approaches with slide labels of classification, rather that the contour annotations of representative lesion regions, are highly demanded in research. In this study, 6,508 slides of 12 common cancers were collected from the database of TCGA by patients, and all cases were randomly split into a training set and a testing set by the ratio of 7:3. Without the information of the representative lesion contours, all patches were randomly sampled from the WSIs in each category. As a result, the indirect labels lead to the noisy samples in the training phase, and the model of ResNet50 was used to train these noisy samples. Nevertheless, the majority voting scheme was applied in the inference phase to mitigate the impacts from the noisy samples or the wrong predictions by the corrupted model. And the slides predicting accuracies of the proposed system can achieve 96.03% and 92.12% for 5-category and 12-category classification tasks, respectively. Moreover, the statistically important features from the obtained model show high responses to the distributions of the representative tissues for each category, providing the validity and the interpretability for the proposed CAD system.

<b>Keywords: Learning with Noisy Labels, Digital Pathology, Whole-Slide Images, Feature Analysis</b>

論文網址:[https://gpi.culture.tw/books/101130073](https://wcse.nttu.edu.tw/p/405-1023-157379,c11406.php)
